README.md, before:

# Marketing Cloud Personalization - Slack Bot

<p align="center">
	<img src="https://image.s4.sfmc-content.com/lib/fe2b1172766404757c1075/m/1/dcaf653f-5489-405c-83fc-dad88c32bb12.png" alt="MCP Slack Bot" width=50% height=50%>
</p>

## 📖 Summary
This bot was created in order to pull in a user's attributes, segment membership, engagement score and NBA/NBO from Marketing Cloud Personalization into Slack.

## ⚠️ Prerequisites
* Heroku
* Slack
* Marketing Cloud Personalization - Premium Edition
* MCP Promotion Library Setup (minimum of **name, image, and description** should be present)

## ⚡️ 1. Create Server-Side Template & Campaign, Generate API Keys
1. You’ll need to create 2 server-side templates:
	1. First template should return the list of promotions (reference our [Einstein Decisions template](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/marketing/personalization/guide/sales-service-cloud-connector-einstein-decisions.html)).
	2. Second template should return the user’s attributes (reference the following [GitHub repo](https://github.com/aaronrileysalesforce/ServerSideTemplates/blob/main/RetrieveAttributes)).
2. Next you’ll create a server-side campaign, one for each of the templates. Attach each template to their respected campaign.
    1. For the promotions campaign, set the asset content zone and a value for the datafield.
    2. For the user attribute campaign, set the value to retrieve as **profileId**.
    3. Save and publish both campaigns.
3. Navigate to **Security → API Tokens** and select the **Generate Token button** to create the API Keys (we will use this later in Heroku).

## 🧬 2. Configure MCP Slack Bot
1. Clone this GitHub repo and open the **config.yaml** file.
    1. Edit **lines 5-10** with your MCP instance information: account & dataset name, datafield values, server-side campaign names. The **datafield** attributes were set in your server-side template code. Reference the config file below as an example:
    2. <img src="https://image.s4.sfmc-content.com/lib/fe2b1172766404757c1075/m/1/b855e9cc-5593-43b5-a566-d602cb562fe4.jpg" alt="YAML Config" width=65% height=65%>
2. Create a new app within Heroku and deploy the cloned repo with your modified YAML file.
3. Within the app, navigate to **Settings** and select **Reveal Config Vars button**. Add the following API values you obtained from MCP in Step 1.3 and label them the following:
    1. API_KEY
    2. API_SECRET

## ✨ 3. Create MCP Slack Bot
1. Login to your Slack instance and navigate to [your apps section](https://api.slack.com/apps) and select **Create New App button**.
    1. Select the **From an app manifest** option
    2. Select the workspace the app should be deployed
    3. From the YAML code below, replace the **<HEROKU_VALUE>** (lines 11 and 23) with your Heroku app name from Step 2.2. Then copy and paste the code to your manifest and create the app.

``` yaml
display_information:
  name: MC Personalization
  description: Marketing Cloud Personalization Bot
  background_color: "#d46600"
features:
  bot_user:
    display_name: MC Personalization
    always_online: false
  slash_commands:
    - command: /einstein
      url: https://<HEROKU_VALUE>.herokuapp.com/slack/events
      description: Retrieve user attributes & NBA
      should_escape: false
oauth_config:
  scopes:
    bot:
      - chat:write
      - channels:history
      - commands
settings:
  interactivity:
    is_enabled: true
    request_url: https://<HEROKU_VALUE>.herokuapp.com/slack/events
  org_deploy_enabled: false
  socket_mode_enabled: false
  token_rotation_enabled: false
```
2. Install the app to your workspace.
3. Once installed, grab the **Signing Secret** (located on the **Basic Information** screen) and the **Bot User OAuth Token** (located on the **OAuth & Permissions** screen)
4. Add these values to your Vars list in Heroku like you did in Step 2.3. Label them the following:
    1. SLACK_BOT_TOKEN
    2. SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET

## 🚀 4. Deploy MCP Slack Bot

1. Within Slack, create a new channel and give it a name.
    1. <img src="https://image.s4.sfmc-content.com/lib/fe2b1172766404757c1075/m/1/c182eaad-29c1-4e6c-9a1a-d03bd0ccfae1.png" alt="Slack - Create Channel" width=40% height=40%>
2. Add the bot by inviting it into the channel using the command **/invite** and selecting **Add apps to this channel**
    1. <img src="https://image.s4.sfmc-content.com/lib/fe2b1172766404757c1075/m/1/bea75df8-b703-4779-8ec5-0ff30d60de2d.png" alt="Slack - Invite Bot" width=35% height=35%>
3. Click **Add** button for the **MC Personalization** app
4. Run the bot by entering the **/einstein** command followed by the user’s e-mail to retrieve back their user attributes and NBO/NBA.  
5. Congrats!! The bot has been successfully deployed and set up within your workspace!! 🥳

## 👨‍💻 Author
Hersh Anand

Commit message:

updated instructions and added FAQ section

README.md, after:

# Marketing Cloud Personalization - Slack Bot

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://image.s4.sfmc-content.com/lib/fe2b1172766404757c1075/m/1/dcaf653f-5489-405c-83fc-dad88c32bb12.png" alt="MCP Slack Bot" width=50% height=50%>
</p>

## 📖 Summary
This bot was created to pull in a user's attributes, segment membership, engagement score and NBA/NBO from Marketing Cloud Personalization into Slack.

## ⚠️ Prerequisites
* Heroku
* Slack
* Marketing Cloud Personalization - Premium Edition
* MCP Promotion Library Setup (minimum of **name, image, and description** should be present)

## ⚡️ 1. Create Server-Side Template & Campaign, Generate API Keys
1. You’ll need to create 2 server-side templates:
  1. First template should return the list of promotions (reference our [Einstein Decisions template](https://developer.salesforce.com/docs/marketing/personalization/guide/sales-service-cloud-connector-einstein-decisions.html)).
  2. Second template should return the user’s attributes (reference the following [GitHub repo](https://github.com/aaronrileysalesforce/ServerSideTemplates/blob/main/RetrieveAttributes)).
2. Next you’ll create a server-side campaign, one for each of the templates. Attach each template to their respective campaign.
    1. For the promotions campaign, set the asset content zone and a value for the datafield.
    2. For the user attribute campaign, set the value to retrieve as **profileId**.
    3. Save and publish both campaigns.
3. Navigate to **Security → API Tokens** and select the **Generate Token button** to create the API Keys (we will use this later in Heroku).

## 🧬 2. Configure MCP Slack Bot
1. Clone this GitHub repo and open the **config.yaml** file.
    1. Edit **lines 5-10** with your MCP instance information: account & dataset name, datafield values, server-side campaign names. The **datafield** attributes were set in your server-side template code. Reference the config file below as an example:
    2. <img src="https://image.s4.sfmc-content.com/lib/fe2b1172766404757c1075/m/1/5d026ee4-7ea6-42db-a4f9-5e681eb84cdd.png" alt="YAML Config" width=65% height=65%>
2. Create a new app within Heroku and deploy the cloned repo with your modified YAML file.
3. Within the app, navigate to **Settings** and select **Reveal Config Vars button**. Add the following API values you obtained from MCP in Step 1.3 and label them the following:
    1. API_KEY
    2. API_SECRET

## ✨ 3. Create MCP Slack Bot
1. Login to your Slack instance and navigate to [your apps section](https://api.slack.com/apps) and select **Create New App button**.
    1. Select the **From an app manifest** option
    2. Select the workspace the app should be deployed
    3. From the YAML code below, replace the **<HEROKU_VALUE>** (lines 11 and 23) with your Heroku app domain. This value can be obtained within **Heroku Settings** and under the **Domains** section. Then copy and paste the code to your manifest and create the app.

``` yaml
display_information:
  name: MC Personalization
  description: Marketing Cloud Personalization Bot
  background_color: "#d46600"
features:
  bot_user:
    display_name: MC Personalization
    always_online: false
  slash_commands:
    - command: /einstein
      url: https://<HEROKU_VALUE>.herokuapp.com/slack/events
      description: Retrieve user attributes & NBA
      should_escape: false
oauth_config:
  scopes:
    bot:
      - chat:write
      - channels:history
      - commands
settings:
  interactivity:
    is_enabled: true
    request_url: https://<HEROKU_VALUE>.herokuapp.com/slack/events
  org_deploy_enabled: false
  socket_mode_enabled: false
  token_rotation_enabled: false
```
2. Install the app in your workspace.
3. Once installed, grab the **Signing Secret** (located on the **Basic Information** screen) and the **Bot User OAuth Token** (located on the **OAuth & Permissions** screen)
4. Add these values to your Vars list in Heroku as you did in Step 2.3. Label them the following:
    1. SLACK_SIGNING_SECRET
    2. SLACK_BOT_TOKEN

## 🚀 4. Deploy MCP Slack Bot

1. Within Slack, create a new channel and give it a name.
    1. <img src="https://image.s4.sfmc-content.com/lib/fe2b1172766404757c1075/m/1/c182eaad-29c1-4e6c-9a1a-d03bd0ccfae1.png" alt="Slack - Create Channel" width=40% height=40%>
2. Add the bot by inviting it into the channel using the command **/invite** and selecting **Add apps to this channel**
    1. <img src="https://image.s4.sfmc-content.com/lib/fe2b1172766404757c1075/m/1/bea75df8-b703-4779-8ec5-0ff30d60de2d.png" alt="Slack - Invite Bot" width=35% height=35%>
3. Click **Add** button for the **MC Personalization** app
4. Run the bot by entering the **/einstein** command followed by the user’s e-mail to retrieve back their user attributes and NBO/NBA.  
5. Congrats!! The bot has been successfully deployed and set up within your workspace!! 🥳

## ❓ FAQs
<details><summary>Do I need to follow the setup instructions in order?</summary>
<br>
It is not required that you set up the bot in order. You may go out of order if you would like.</details>
<details markdown="1"><summary>I am receiving the following error "/einstein failed with the error "dispatch_failed"</summary>
<br>
Double check the following:
<ol><li>All config vars in Heroku have the correct key name and corresponding value. These are case-sensitive.</li>
<li>Check the Heroku domain name within your Slack YAML is correct. It should be your <b>unique app name</b> with an <i>identifier value</i> generated by Heroku, i.e. https://<b>example-app</b>-<i>1234567890ab</i>.herokuapp.com/</li></ol></details>
<details markdown="1"><summary>Do I need Heroku to deploy the bot?</summary>
<br>
Currently, the script for the bot needs to be hosted on a server. While this setup uses Heroku to walk through the deployment, it is not mandatory you use it. The script can be deployed on any server, i.e. AWS, GCP. If you decide not to use Heroku, you will need to set up the enviroment variables within the given server of choice and obtain the hosted URL to set up the Slack YAML configuration.</details> 

## 👨‍💻 Author
Hersh Anand
